All challenges exprienced during the entirety of the project will be posted here

Challenges Encountered During the Robot Project
1. Motor Direction Failures
  Challenge
    One side of the robot could move backward but could not move forward properly. Initially, it seemed like the motor driver or the motor itself was damaged.
    Investigation
  I isolated the problem by testing:
    Each motor independently
    Each control pin individually 
    HIGH and LOW logic voltages using a multimeter
  I discovered that:
    The Arduino output pin was functioning correctly
    The issue was caused by a faulty jumper wire and unstable connections
  
  Solution
    I replaced the problematic wire and rewired the motor driver connections carefully.
    Example Diagnostic Code
    int IN1 = 8;void setup() {  pinMode(IN1, OUTPUT);}void loop() {  digitalWrite(IN1, HIGH);  delay(5000);  digitalWrite(IN1, LOW);  delay(5000);}
    This allowed me to verify the voltage output directly using a multimeter.

2. OLED Display Instability
  Challenge
    The OLED display would:
      Randomly turn off
      Flicker
      Sometimes work only once
  
    This became worse after integrating motors and sensors.
  
  Investigation
    I discovered that:
      The OLED communication (I2C) was very sensitive to electrical noise
      Motor startup current caused voltage drops
      Weak ground connections caused unstable communication
  
  Solution
  I:
    Improved common grounding
    Reduced wiring clutter
    Isolated power paths
    Simplified the test setup before reintegrating components

  Stable OLED Test Code
  display.clearDisplay();display.setTextSize(2);display.setCursor(20, 25);display.println("HELLO");display.display();

  This simple loop helped confirm whether the OLED system itself was stable.

3. Power Distribution Problems
  Challenge
  When motors started moving:
    Sensors failed
    OLED stopped working
    Some components behaved unpredictably
  
  Investigation
  I learned that motors create:
    Electrical noise
    Sudden current spikes
    Voltage dips
  
  These affected the entire system because all components shared unstable power paths.
  
  Solution
  I:
    Improved grounding
    Used cleaner wiring
    Reduced shared noisy connections
    Planned for capacitor-based voltage stabilization

  This taught me that robotics problems are often electrical rather than software-related.

4. ESP32-CAM Power and Heat Issues
  Challenge
  While attempting to power and program the ESP32-CAM:
    The board failed to boot correctly
    LEDs behaved strangely
    The board became extremely hot
  
  Investigation
  I found that:
    The ESP32-CAM is highly sensitive to unstable power
    Incorrect wiring or poor grounding can cause overheating
    Using incorrect voltage logic levels is dangerous

  Solution
  I:
    Isolated the power connections
    Tested only the 5V and GND lines first
    Verified voltages using a multimeter
    lLearned the importance of stable regulated power

  This experience improved my understanding of:
    Voltage regulation
    Grounding
    Logic level compatibility

5. Serial Communication Complexity
  Challenge
  I wanted the ESP32-CAM and Arduino Uno to work together:
    ESP32 handling WiFi and camera streaming
    Arduino handling motors and sensors

  Initially, the communication architecture was confusing.
  Solution
  I learned to use:
    UART serial communication
    SoftwareSerial on the Arduino Uno
    Command-based communication systems

  Example Serial Receiver Code
  #include <SoftwareSerial.h>SoftwareSerial espSerial(2, 3);void setup() {  Serial.begin(9600);  espSerial.begin(9600);}void loop() {  if (espSerial.available()) {    char cmd = espSerial.read();    Serial.println(cmd);  }}

  This became the foundation for future wireless robot control.

6. Integrating Multiple Systems Together
  Challenge
  Combining:
    Motors
    OLED display
    Ultrasonic sensor
  introduced unexpected instability.

  Solution
  Instead of building everything simultaneously, I adopted a modular debugging approach:
    Test motors independently
    Test OLED independently
    Test ultrasonic independently
    Integrate systems gradually

  This made troubleshooting much easier and taught me systematic engineering practices.
  
  Key Lessons Learned
  Through this project I learned:
    Hardware debugging is as important as coding
    Stable wiring and grounding are critical
    Modular testing simplifies troubleshooting
    Robotics systems require careful power management
    Embedded systems are highly sensitive to noise and voltage fluctuations

  I also improved my skills in: 
    Arduino programming
    Motor control
    PWM speed control
    Sensor integration
    Serial communication
    Electronics troubleshooting
    System integration

  Future Improvements Planned 
  The planned future upgrades include:
    wireless robot control
    Live camera streaming
    AI-based object detection
    GPS navigation
    Autonomous navigation modes
    Browser-based robot control systems

The long-term goal is to develop a semi-autonomous intelligent robotic platform using both the Arduino Uno and ESP32-CAM.
